README.md, before:

# Full-Stack Starter

This repository contains a "starter" project for web application development in JavaScript.

## Getting Started

1. Clone this git repo to a "local" directory (on your computer), then change
   into the directory.

   ```
   $ git clone git@github.com:dev-mission/full-stack-starter.git
   $ cd full-stack-starter
   ```

2. After cloning, your "local" repo (in this directory on your computer) will be linked to the "remote"
   repo (as the "origin"). To track and save your own work on top of this code, rename the remote
   to something else (in this example, to the name "upstream"):

   ```
   $ git remote rename origin upstream
   ```

3. Create your own new git repo for your work, then push up and link your local repo
   to it as the new "origin" :

   ```
   $ git remote add origin <your new remote repository URL>
   $ git push -u origin master
   ```

4. There are some settings that must be configured to run the web application.
   They are set as "environment variables" which are loaded from a file called ```.env```.
   Copy the ```example.env``` file as a starting point:

   ```
   $ cp example.env .env
   ```

5. Install Docker Desktop: https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop

   1. If you have Windows Home Edition, you will need to install Docker Toolbox instead.
   See the troubleshooting notes below.

6. Open a command-line shell, change into your repo directory, and execute this command:

   ```
   $ docker-compose up
   ```

   It will take a while the first time you run this command to build the "images" to
   run the web application code in a Docker "container". When you see messages that look
   like this, the server is running:

   ```
   server_1       | 2:14:26 AM web.1     |  > app@0.0.0 start /opt/node/app
   server_1       | 2:14:26 AM web.1     |  > nodemon -V --ignore ./client ./bin/www
   server_1       | 2:14:26 AM web.1     |  [nodemon] 1.19.0
   server_1       | 2:14:26 AM web.1     |  [nodemon] to restart at any time, enter `rs`
   server_1       | 2:14:26 AM web.1     |  [nodemon] or send SIGHUP to 57 to restart
   ```

7. Open ANOTHER command-line shell, change into your repo directory, then execute
   this command to log in to the running server container:

   ```
   $ docker-compose exec server bash -l
   ```

   Whenever the server container is running, you can execute this command to log in
   to the server- you will then be in a Linux "bash" command-line shell. Execute
   the following two commands inside the server container to complete the setup:

   ```
   # sequelize db:create
   # sequelize db:migrate
   ```

8. Now you should be able to open the web app in your browser at: http://localhost:3000/

   1. If you had to install Docker Toolbox, then replace "localhost" with the IP
   address of the Docker Virtual Machine.

9. To stop the server, press CONTROL-C in the window with the running server.
   If it is successful, you will see something like this:

   ```
   Killing full-stack-starter_db_1           ... done
   Killing full-stack-starter_server_1       ... done
   Killing full-stack-starter_mailcatcher_1  ... done
   ```

   If it is not successful, you may see something like this:

   ```
   ERROR: Aborting.
   ```

   If you get an error, the server may still be running on your computer. To force it to stop,
   run the following command and wait for the output to report DONE:

   ```
   $ docker-compose stop
   Stopping full-stack-starter_db_1          ... done
   Stopping full-stack-starter_server_1      ... done
   Stopping full-stack-starter_mailcatcher_1 ... done
   ```

10. That's it! After all this setup is complete, the only command you need to run to get
started again is the ```docker-compose up``` command.

## Docker Troubleshooting

* On some PC laptops, a hardware CPU feature called virtualization is disabled by default, which is required by Docker. To enable it, reboot your computer into its BIOS interface (typically by pressing a key like DELETE or F1 during the boot process), and look for an option to enable it. It may be called something like *Intel Virtualization Technology*, *Intel VT*, *AMD-V*, or some similar variation.

* On Windows, Docker Desktop cannot run on Windows Home edition. Install Docker Toolbox instead:

  https://docs.docker.com/toolbox/overview/

  https://github.com/docker/toolbox/releases

  Use the *Docker QuickStart shell* installed with Docker Toolbox to open a command-line shell that launches Docker for you when it starts. On Windows, right-click on the shotcut and Run as Administrator. Note: this can take a long time to start, depending upon your computer, as it needs to start a virtual machine running Linux.

  The virtual machine will have its own, separate IP address on your computer. In the ```.env``` file (see step 4 in Getting Started), replace *localhost* with *192.168.99.100* in the BASE_HOST and BASE_URL variables. To confirm that this is the correct IP address, run this command in the command-line shell:

  ```
  $ docker-machine ip
  ```

## License

Full-Stack Starter
Copyright (C) 2019 <dev/Mission>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

Update README to include import of spreadsheet
I updated the README because the app would crash when you hadn't populated the database. I also renamed the spreadsheet to make it easier to run the commands.

README.md, after:

# SF Civil Grand Jury App

This repository contains the Code for San Francisco app for the San Francisco Civil Grand Jury project.

## Getting Started

1. Clone this git repo to a "local" directory (on your computer), then change
   into the directory.

   ```
   $ git clone https://github.com/dev-mission/sf-civil-grand-jury.git
   $ cd sf-civil-grand-jury
   ```

2. There are some settings that must be configured to run the web application.
   They are set as "environment variables" which are loaded from a file called ```.env```.
   Copy the ```example.env``` file as a starting point:

   ```
   $ cp example.env .env
   ```

3. Install Docker Desktop: https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop

   1. If you have Windows Home Edition, you will need to install Docker Toolbox instead.
   See the troubleshooting notes below.

4. Open a command-line shell, change into your repo directory, and execute this command:

   ```
   $ docker-compose up
   ```

   It will take a while the first time you run this command to build the "images" to
   run the web application code in a Docker "container". When you see messages that look
   like this, the server is running:

   ```
   server_1       | 2:14:26 AM web.1     |  > app@0.0.0 start /opt/node/app
   server_1       | 2:14:26 AM web.1     |  > nodemon -V --ignore ./client ./bin/www
   server_1       | 2:14:26 AM web.1     |  [nodemon] 1.19.0
   server_1       | 2:14:26 AM web.1     |  [nodemon] to restart at any time, enter `rs`
   server_1       | 2:14:26 AM web.1     |  [nodemon] or send SIGHUP to 57 to restart
   ```

5. Open ANOTHER command-line shell, change into your repo directory, then execute
   this command to log in to the running server container:

   ```
   $ docker-compose exec server bash -l
   ```

   Whenever the server container is running, you can execute this command to log in
   to the server- you will then be in a Linux "bash" command-line shell. Execute
   the following two commands inside the server container to complete the setup:

   ```
   # sequelize db:create
   # sequelize db:migrate
   ```

   1. Before opening the app, you'll need to import some data into the database. Execute this command to import the seed data file:

   ```
   bin/import seed.xlsx
   ```

6. Now you should be able to open the web app in your browser at: http://localhost:3000/

   1. If you had to install Docker Toolbox, then replace "localhost" with the IP
   address of the Docker Virtual Machine.

7. To stop the server, press CONTROL-C in the window with the running server.
   If it is successful, you will see something like this:

   ```
   Killing full-stack-starter_db_1           ... done
   Killing full-stack-starter_server_1       ... done
   Killing full-stack-starter_mailcatcher_1  ... done
   ```

   If it is not successful, you may see something like this:

   ```
   ERROR: Aborting.
   ```

   If you get an error, the server may still be running on your computer. To force it to stop,
   run the following command and wait for the output to report DONE:

   ```
   $ docker-compose stop
   Stopping full-stack-starter_db_1          ... done
   Stopping full-stack-starter_server_1      ... done
   Stopping full-stack-starter_mailcatcher_1 ... done
   ```

8. That's it! After all this setup is complete, the only command you need to run to get
started again is the ```docker-compose up``` command.

## Docker Troubleshooting

* On some PC laptops, a hardware CPU feature called virtualization is disabled by default, which is required by Docker. To enable it, reboot your computer into its BIOS interface (typically by pressing a key like DELETE or F1 during the boot process), and look for an option to enable it. It may be called something like *Intel Virtualization Technology*, *Intel VT*, *AMD-V*, or some similar variation.

* On Windows, Docker Desktop cannot run on Windows Home edition. Install Docker Toolbox instead:

  https://docs.docker.com/toolbox/overview/

  https://github.com/docker/toolbox/releases

  Use the *Docker QuickStart shell* installed with Docker Toolbox to open a command-line shell that launches Docker for you when it starts. On Windows, right-click on the shotcut and Run as Administrator. Note: this can take a long time to start, depending upon your computer, as it needs to start a virtual machine running Linux.

  The virtual machine will have its own, separate IP address on your computer. In the ```.env``` file (see step 4 in Getting Started), replace *localhost* with *192.168.99.100* in the BASE_HOST and BASE_URL variables. To confirm that this is the correct IP address, run this command in the command-line shell:

  ```
  $ docker-machine ip
  ```

## License

Full-Stack Starter
Copyright (C) 2019 <dev/Mission>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
